# Contemporary Issues In Data
In this document, I discuss two articles about the fight over a TikTok ban and the larger issue implicated with it regarding data collection and data privacy regulation. I present two opposing views on this contemporary data issue which has been the subject of discussion recently, especially in the United States.

## Article 1
In PBS's [Why a ban on TikTok won’t solve all data privacy concerns](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/nation/why-a-ban-on-tiktok-wont-solve-all-data-privacy-concerns), Nicole Ellis speaks with deputy director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center Caitriona Fitzgerald regarding recent bipartisan scrunity over TikTok data privacy in Congress. While all the attention seemed to be focused on TikTok, Fitzgerald asserts that Congress failed to realize that the methods through which TikTok obtains data on users' behaviors and activity are actually very similar to those that most other apps use. However, the reason TikTok is under so much more scrutiny might instead be tied to U.S. and China relations. While TikTok CEO Shou Chew argued that TikTok had not been involved with any initiatives to use user data to assist with Chinese government intelligence, recent news events between the U.S. and China could have raised tensions in Congress. The article goes on to argue that the real issue is not TikTok, but the United States' overall weak data privacy laws. A TikTok ban would do nothing to prevent other apps like Meta from continuing to collect users' personal data. For example, The American Data Privacy and Protection Act, a federal data privacy law that would apply to all apps, failed to pass in Congress, but could provide a more efficient solution to data privacy concerns than a ban could.

When comparing the U.S.' data privacy laws with those of other countries, the U.S. seems to have much less regulation on data collection. If Congress has concerns about protecting data privacy as well as national security, I believe a ban on TikTok would not be the correct solution to that concern. Rather, as Fitzgerald says, data can be protected more efficiently through regulating technology companies and ensuring that data collection and tracking of user data is in compliance with safe data practices.

## Article 2

In AP's [Why Tiktok's security risks keep raising fears](https://apnews.com/article/tiktok-ceo-shou-zi-chew-security-risk-cc36f36801d84fc0652112fa461ef140), details are provided explaining why there are very legitimate fears about TikTok's data privacy practices. The article brings up the concern that TikTok would have to give its data to Beijing under the Chinese law that they must send any personal data relevant to China's national authority, although this was discredited by Article 1. However, TikTok's parent company, ByteDance, previously fired four employees who accessed data on journalists from Buzzfeed News and The Financial Times. This event provides Congress with some understandable cause for concern as spying on the data of journalists has happened before. The article also points out that many otehr countries such as New Zealand have imposed similar restrictions on TikTok. However, I believe that this is a different situation because other countries have more outlined regulations regarding data privacy. A U.S. ban on TikTok alone would not address the main issue of data privacy because other apps would still continue collecting and harvesting data in the same ways without any more specific guidelines.

TikTok also has the plan to protect user data by storing all data on servers owned and operated by Oracle, while older user data will be deleted. In turn, data will be protected by a Silicon Valley company and China will not be able to access it, which should curb concern that TikTok is doing anything to support Chinese government intelligence. While some argue that a foreign government such as China would be interested in U.S. data on food processing, the finance industry, and universities, Congress would not be able to address these concerns by banning TikTok. Rather, they should support such acts like The American Data Privacy and Protection Act, which would provide basic guidelines on what technology companies can and cannot collect from their users.

I believe that while Article brings up some concerns and evidence that could bring up concern, such as the past situation where employees improperly used the personal data of specific journalists, TikTok is not much different from other technology apps like Meta in terms of its data privacy and collection practices. Congressmembers might have been negatively influenced by national security relations with China, but should not ban TikTok because of this. TikTok argued that they have a plan with Oracle to ensure U.S. data is protected, and the U.S. should look to protect domestic user data through a more widespread privacy law that many other countries already have that would place guidelines on data privacy.